## GENERAL INFORMATION 

*This section establishes basic information about the data, particularly the ???who??? and ???what???.* 

DATA TITLE: Comparison Features Data from pairs of Bullet Land Engraved Areas
PROJECT TITLE: CSAFE Firearms and Toolmark Analysis
DATA ABSTRACT: 
Land engraved areas (LEAs) on fired bullets form the basis of forensic examinations regarding whether these bullets were fired from the same source (the same barrel).  For algorithmic comparisons of similarity 3d topographic imaging forms the basis of assessing similarity. Here, three parts of the statistical analysis are included: 
(a) descriptive information for each scan, including its suitability for comparisons, (b) statistically derived features characterizing similarity and differences of each pair of topographic LEA scans}, and (c) a fitted Random Forest model object used to predict the similarity of two scans based on their corresponding similarity features.
The original raw data is available from the NIST Ballistics Toolmark Database; here, we provide the code and intermediate data necessary to create the Random Forest model described in ["Automatic Matching of Bullet Land Impressions"](https://doi.org/10.1214/17-aoas1080) to make this work  accessible and reproducible. This also allows future algorithms to be benchmarked against this random forest bullet matching model.

AUTHORS: 

	Author: Heike Hofmann
	ORCID: 0000-0001-6216-5183
	Institution: Iowa State University; Center for Statistics and Applications in Forensic Evidence
	Email: hofmann@iastate.edu

  Author: Susan Vanderplas
	ORCID: 0000-0002-3803-0972
	Institution: University of Nebraska-Lincoln
	Email: susan.vanderplas@unl.edu

  Author: Eric Hare
	ORCID: 0000-0002-4277-3146
	Institution: OmniAnalytics
	Email: ericrhare@gmail.com

  Author: Alicia Carriquiry
	ORCID: 0000-0002-6428-9427
	Institution: Iowa State University; Center for Statistics and Applications in Forensic Evidence
	Email: alicia@iastate.edu

	Corresponding author: Heike Hofmann

ASSOCIATED PUBLICATIONS: 

- Hare, E., Hofmann, H., Carriquiry, A., & others. (2017). Automatic matching of bullet land impressions. The Annals of Applied Statistics, 11(4), 2332???2356. https://doi.org/10.1214/17-AOAS1080
- Vanderplas, S., Nally, M., Klep, T., Cadevall, C., & Hofmann, H. (2020). Comparison of three similarity scores for bullet LEA matching. Forensic Science International. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.forsciint.2020.110167

COLLECTION INFORMATION:

	Time period(s):  
	Location(s): NA

### FILE DIRECTORY 

*This section will help users navigate the folders and files that make up the data set.*

#### FILE LIST

*Provide a complete list of all of the files/folders in your data set. Include the file???s name and a short description.*
*If you have multiple files that make up a series you only need to make one entry per series as long as you explain the enumeration. You may use the format below or use your own.*

1. `meta-info.csv` - descriptive information about each raw x3p file containing a 3-dimensional scan of a bullet land surface. 
2. `hamby-comparisons.csv` -  features quantifying the similarity between pairs of 3d topographic surface scans detailing striation marks on land engraved areas (LEAs) of fired bullets. Features were extracted using the R software packages [x3ptools](github.com/heike/x3ptools@164e631) and [bulletxtrctr](github.com/heike/bulletxtrctr@dfa140a) as outlined in the pipeline in Hare et al (2017) and detailed in the accompanying R script. From available meta information ground truth regarding source is added for each comparison. 
3. `csafe_rf2.rds` - the fitted random forest model object, containing all of the component trees and the features used to fit the random forest. This model uses `hamby-comparisons.csv` as training data to predict same source pairs and different source pairs. Fitted using R package randomForest 4.6-14
4. `codebook.md` - a codebook describing variable names and associated information.


## METHODS AND MATERIALS
  
*This section is devoted to the ???when??? and ???how??? of the data.*

### DATA COLLECTION METHODS 

*Include information on how the data was collected. You should provide technical information as well as information found in the  methods section of 
related papers. Remember this is about the data, not the research.*



### DATA PROCESSING METHODS 

*Include information on how the data was cleaned and/or processed, or if sharing raw data, state that here.* 



### SOFTWARE

*This section informs users about any specialized software used to generate/process the data or needed to use the data. Create a new entry for each program and/or add-on.*
 
Name:
Version:
System Requirements:
URL:
Developer:
Additional Notes: 

### EQUIPMENT
*If your data was generated by equipment or a tool running special software you should record it???s information here. Create a new entry for each piece of 
equipment.*

Manufacturer:
Model:
Embedded Software/Firmware Name: (if applicable)
Embedded Software/Firmware Version: (if applicable)
Additional Notes:

### LICENSING 

*This section should include a statement on how other people can access, reuse, and/or redistribute the data, i.e. licensing information. Template language for CC-BY and CC-0 licenses are included below, delete the license information that does not apply.* 

This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution (CC-BY) 4.0 International License. 
For more information visit: [https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0 ](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0)


This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Universal Public Domain Dedication (CC0 1.0) License. 
For more information visit: [https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/ ](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

